Problem Set 8
started 7/9/2020
Problem 1.

Proof by contradiction lets say we have two different MST, M and N of the same graph.
their differences are edges E of set M-N, in particular e is the smallest edge that in one and not the other.
By definition if we add an edge to a spanning tree then we have created a cycle. so if we add a smaller edge e to N
we have a cycle then we could remove another larger edge than e. if this is possible then N was not a MST
thus a contradiction
we can only have one MST

Problem 2.
(a)
see figure 1 for 4 color of graph

(b)
by picture in we can show that if we try to color with 3 we will have to implement a 4th color

proof by contradiction,
suppose we start coloring the graph with 3 colors.
if we start coloring the outside we see that we have an outer cycle of 5 vert.
we know that this length cycle must be colored with 3. we have done an example coloring in figure 2.
the direct consequence of this is that the inner set of verts labeled 1-5 have no degrees of freedom for coloring
on 3 vertices, in this case 1,4,5. we will note that due to the symmetry of this graph this coloring could be done in any orientation 
and the same result would be true but with a different rotational symmetry.
vert 1,5,4 we can see are constrained to be each a different color
because they are all adjacent to vert. 6, this means vert 6 needs a 4th color to complete the graph coloring
thus it is impossible to color with 3.

Problem 3.
(a)
we can see that this is stable by eliminating possible rogue members
B1 is matched with his 1st pref so he will be rogue with no one. so he is impossible to rogue
B2 the same is true
G1 and G2 have their second choice, but their first choices we have established are
impossible to rogue.
therefore G1 and G2 are impossible to rogue
the remaining 2x2 have complete information on each others preference and we can see that they are stable
(b)
the stable match behaves like two subgroups of 2x2, with 1&2 being boy-optimal and 3&4 being boy-pessimal.
the sum is neither boy-optimal nor boy-pessimal
the mating ritual that we know creates 1 or the other so this used some other procedure
(c)
suppose a match has the two boys in the kth pair married to two girls in the kth pair for 1<=k<=n/2.
a boy in the kth pair will never become a rogue couple with a girl in the j pair where j>k because the girl will have perference of her own partner,
it will also never happen wen k>j because the boy will have preference of their current partner.
a rogue couple can not be involved in j=k because exactly one of the two must be happy with their arrangement within the 2x2.
since each boy can be stably married to either girl in the kth pair and there are n/2 pairs then we have proven the stable matching is
2^(n/2)
