Inclass 2.8
started 7/7/2020

Problem 1.

(a)
the claim could be true. if we assume that each encounter has a female and male person, then we know that their average should be the same if they have the same population size.
if this is the case and there are the same number of males as females then we could assume that either the males are exadurating or the females are under reporting.

(b)
the constant c in m = c*f is the fraction of males to females. if its less than 1 then there are more females, more tahn 1 and there are more males, and =1 then there are equal m and f.
this will acount for the difference in average.

(c)
x will be the fraction of female non-virgins to male non-virgin. the higher the percent of non-virgin population the lower the average will be in this partitioned population set.
in this example we can see that x will be larger than 1.

(d)
this will not be possible if the population sizes arnt the same. this also wont be possible if the non-virgin size isnt the same.
because both of these are beign paired 1:1

Problem 2.
(a)
proof by induction
in the base case of 2 vert. with 1 edge we have 2 verticies with 1 degree each.

if we call P(n) some simple graph with n verticies we will assume that it currently has an even number of verticies.
with odd degrees

in the case that we,
create a new vertex and connect it to the graph P(n) we create 1 odd degree vertex, and also if we connect it to an odd then we remove an odd. if we connect it to an even vertex that becomes an odd
so in each case we net 0, or 2 new odd connection
so our sum of odd degrees remain even

in the case that we,
connect existing unconnected verticies
if we connect two odds we remove two odds, and still have even # of odd degrees
if we connect two evens we create two new odd degrees, the sum still is even
if we connect an odd and even we net 0,
in all cases the sum of odd degree vertices remains even
thus completes our cases and our proof by induction

(b)
if we make a simple graph of hand shakes, where people are the vertices and handshakes are the edges
we see that odd number of hand shakes is the same thing as odd degrees
so the proof is the same as (a)

(c)
any graph of handshakes will follow the rule in (a) so if there is 1 person with odd shakes then there is atleast another with odd shakes.
now we might nievly think of a case where there is no connection between an odd person and another odd person, in a separate island of handshakes that has no bridge between.
however these two islands of handshakes can each be their own graphs of handshakes that must still follow the rules of (a)
so there will be another connected person with odd shakes.

Problem 3.
are isomorphisms f and g
f(1) = a
f(2) = b
f(3) = c
f(4) = d
f(5) = e
f(6) = f

h is the same but h(1)=b,h(2)=a

g(1) = a
g(2) = b
g(3) = d
g(4) = c
g(5) = f
g(6) = e

i is the same except i(1)=b, i(2)=a

we can see that 1,2 and a,b are interchangeable as they are all connected to two 3rd degrees and then the rest of the graph is sysemtric
we can see that 3-5 and 4-6 are symetric with c-e and d-f so these can be swapped.
this accounts for all the verticies so we know we have
4 isomorphisms

problem 4.
(a)
this sort of count of vertices is preserved
this is darn near the definition of isomorphism
(b)
cycles are preserved because connections are preserved
(c)
counts of degrees is preserved because all connections are preserved
(d)
this looks like its not preserved
length values are not normally assigned to simple graphs.. if this means length in number of edges
that would be preserved.
(e)
degrees of connectivity is preserved
(f)
cycles are preserved
(g)
this is preserved
(h)
edge lengths are not preserved
(i)
not sure
(j)
not sure
